Verify that the ATM accepts deposits placed in an envelope. Smaller ATMs and those at non-bank locations such as convenience stores or restaurants may not have this function. If it does not have a marked slot for dispensing and/or accepting envelopes, it does not accept envelope deposits.
Some modern bank ATMs may only accept non-envelope deposits. See elsewhere in this article for information on making such deposits.
Your bank may not permit deposits at ATMs not affiliated with it. Check your financial institution’s policies.
Insert your ATM or debit card and enter your PIN number. This part of the process is exactly the same as when you withdraw cash.
Locate the “deposit” tab on the screen or corresponding button indicated by the screen (on older machines). If there is no deposit option, you’re out of luck on this ATM.
Endorse any checks to be deposited. Sign them on the back in the marked area.
Add “for deposit only” below your signature for added security. If you lose this endorsed check, it can only be deposited, not cashed.
Prepare a deposit slip. If you are using a slip from your checkbook, your name, address, and account number should already be on the check.
If you are using a blank deposit slip, like those available in a bank branch, fill out your name, address, and account number. Add the date to any type of deposit slip.
Enter the total amount of cash to be deposited on the marked line, and individually list checks in the provided slots on the front (and, if needed, back) of the slip.
Enter the total amount of all checks and cash to be deposited on the provided line.
You don’t need to sign a deposit slip when depositing funds into an ATM. A signature is only required when you seek cash back from a deposit made at a teller window.
You may want to sign your checks and prepare your deposit slip ahead of time, for convenience and safety. Limiting your time at the ATM is safer and less likely to annoy those in line behind you.
Use the deposit envelope provided by the ATM. Older machines may have a small door that you lift open to reveal deposit envelopes, while newer machines may just spit them out of a slot.
Even if you have your deposit organized into an envelope, transfer it to the one provided by the machine.
Make sure you insert all your checks, cash, and the deposit slip into the envelope. Seal it securely.
Write in any information, such as name, date, and the deposit amount, requested on the outside of the envelope (as indicated by labeled blank lines).
The ATM may ask you if you need more time while preparing your deposit. Press the indicated button to give yourself added time to get everything in order.
Insert your completed and sealed envelope and verify your deposit. The slot where you insert the envelope should be clearly marked and may be indicated by flashing lights. It may also be the same slot where you received your deposit envelope.
When prompted by the ATM, either before or after making the actual deposit, enter the total amount of your deposit. Write the total amount down on a scrap of paper beforehand if you need a reminder.
Take care to be accurate. The bank should be able to correct any discrepancies, but it is quicker and easier to get things right the first time.
Confirm that you want a receipt and keep it for your records, at least until your deposits clear.
Wait for your deposits to clear. Deposits of cash or check by envelope are manually counted and entered into your account, so funds will not be available immediately.
A common wait time for fund availability from an ATM deposit is the second business day after the deposit. That is, if you deposit the funds on Monday, they will be available Wednesday. But, if you deposit them Sunday (not a business day), it will also be Wednesday. Banks are required to consider ATM deposits made by noon to be made that business day.